_**Secrets for Android**_ is an application to securely store and manage passwords and secrets on your Android phone.  It uses techniques like strong encryption and auto-logout to help ensure that your secrets remain safe (assuming you use a good master password!).  Context-sensitive tips guide you along through its operation, making it easy to use.

_**Secrets for Android**_ is open source using the Apache 2.0 licence, so you can examine the code yourself, or modify it to your needs.

| _**Secrets for Android**_ is available on the [Android Market](https://market.android.com/details?id=net.tawacentral.roger.secrets), and it is highly recommend that you  install it from there.  Only use the download link on this site if your device does not have access to the market.  If _**Secrets for Android**_ is downloaded directly from this site, it will not auto-update as new versions are released. |
|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

Secrets has a cool icon thanks to GP from [livelyblue.com](http://livelyblue.com).

_Secrets agora em português brasileiro, traduzido por Bento Loewenstein_

_Secretos ahora está disponible en español_

_Het programma is nu beschikbaar in het Nederlands, met dank aan Ejal_

_Secrets (Geheimnisse) gibt es nun auch auf Deutsch. (Frank Dietrich)_

_Il programma e ormai disponibile in lingua italiana grazie a Stefano e Enrico_

_Secrets est maintenant disponible en français. (Merci Fabrice)_

_Secrets is now available in Chinese (zh-CN and zh-TW) thanks to 安卓网：http://www.HiAPK.com_



## Sync ##
Synchronize your secrets with your PC!  See [wiki](https://github.com/rogerta/secrets-for-android/blob/wiki/PCSecrets.md) for details.

## Starting Secrets ##
The first time you start Secrets, you'll be asked to choose, and then confirm, a master password.  Subsequently, you will need to enter this password before any of your secrets will be revealed.

If you forget your master password, press **MENU** and tap "Reset password".  Keep in mind however that this will delete all of your secrets!  Try not to forget your master password.

## Adding Secrets ##
After entering your master password, you see the secrets list.  To add a new secret, press **MENU** and tap "Add".  A secret consists of the following information:

  * **Description**.  A short description of the secret, or the URL of a website.  For example, you could say "Visa card", "Passport", "Driver's license", or "amazon.com".
  * **Id**. A name or number associated with the secret.  For example, this could be the Visa card number, passport id, driver's license number, or your login name on the website.
  * **PIN**. Most sensitive part of the secret.  For example, this could be the Visa card verification code or the password associated with the login name.
  * **Email**. An email address associated with this secret.
  * **Notes**. Any other information you'd like to store with the secret.

All information fields are optional.  Enter as much or as little as you like.  A very secure PIN can be generated by pressing **MENU** and tapping on "Generate".

When done, press **BACK** to save the secret.  You can also press **MENU** to see more options.

To add secrets in bulk, or to transfer secrets or passwords from other applications, see the Import section below.

## Using your Secrets ##
The main secrets list shows all of your secrets, ordered alphabetically by description.  Each entry in the list shows the description, the Id or email address, and the time and/or date of the last action that was performed on that secret.  Tap a secret to momentarily reveal its PIN or double-tap to edit it.  Tap and hold a secret to see a context menu with more options.

### Copy PIN to Clipboard ###
The PIN of a secret can be transfered to another application on the phone without displaying it.  First use secrets to copy the PIN to the clipboard, then switch to the other application and paste it into the appropriate text field.

To copy a PIN to the clipboard, tap and hold the secret to display the context menu, then tap on "Copy PIN".  Keep in mind though that your PIN remains in the clipboard after pasting, so I recommend clearing the clipboard once the PIN has been used.

### Filtering and Full-text Searching ###
If your list of secrets is long, you can filter it by typing on the keyboard.  Only those secrets whose description begins with the typed letters will appear in the list.  Press **BACK** to clear the filter.

To perform a full-text search, type a period (.) followed by the search text.  All secrets that contain the typed text, either in the description, id, email, or notes, will appear in the list.  The PIN field is not searched.

(On the Nexus One, the on-screen keyboard can be displayed by pressing and holding the **MENU** button for at least one second.)

On devices without a physical keyboard, press the **SEARCH** button to perform a full-text search.  On the Samsung Galaxy S or equivalent, a tap and hold of the **MENU** performs a full-text search.

### Automatic Logout ###
Should Secrets be running when your phone goes to sleep, you will be automatically logged out.  The next time your phone wakes up, you'll need to re-enter your master password to continue.  Switching to another application and returning to Secrets will also require you to re-enter your master password.

## Backup and Restore ##
With the secrets list displayed, press **MENU** then tap "Backup" to backup your secrets to the SD card.  This will create a file called `secrets` in the root of the SD card.  This file is protected by your master password, so it won't inadvertently reveal any of your secrets.

To restore from the backup file, press **MENU** then tap "Restore".  Note that restoring will replace all your secrets with those from the backup file.  Be careful with this function because it cannot be undone.  **In order for the restore operation to work, you need to be logged into _Secrets_ using the same password used to create the backup**.

Automatic backups are also performed each time you leave the secrets list display, and are available from the Restore function.  The last 10 automatic backups are available to restore from, identified by the time and date at which they were created.  Automatic backups are deleted if you perform a "Factory data reset" of your phone.  Backups on the SD card created with the "Backup" menu are not.

## Import and Export ##
Your secrets can be exported to a CSV file in order to copy them to another application.  With the secrets list displayed, press **MENU** then tap "Export" to export your secrets to a file called `secrets.csv` in the root of the SD card.  Each secret is written out as 5 columns in the following order: description, id, PIN, email, and notes.

| **Secrets exported to a CSV file are no longer protected by your master password! I recommend that you delete this file as soon as you are done with it.** |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

You can also import secrets from other applications.  You first need to export the secrets as a CSV file from that application into a file called `secrets.csv` located in the root of your SD card.  This file should follow the exact format used by Secrets during export.  Then login to **Secrets**, press **MENU** and tap "Import".

Unlike restoring from backup, imported secrets are added to your existing secrets and do not replace them.  Since CSV files are not password protected, _**Secrets**_ offers to delete the file if it was imported successfully.  I recommend you allow _**Secrets**_ to delete the file.

### Importing from OI Safe ###
_**Secrets**_ has special support for importing passwords from _**OI Safe**_ v.1.1.0.  To import your passwords, do the following:

  1. Start _**OI Safe**_ and login
  1. press **MENU**, tap "More", then tap "Export Database"
  1. Start _**Secrets**_ and login
  1. press **MENU**, and tap "Import"

_**Secrets**_ knows how to look for the _**OI Safe**_ exported database and imports it automatically.
