#summary Translating Secrets into your favourite language.
#labels Phase-Implementation,Featured

= Introduction =

_*Secrets for Android*_ was initially available only in English because that is the language in which I am most fluent.  I am also able to read and write French, and can speak Portuguese, but that's it.  All translations into languages other than English have been very graciously done by volunteers.

= Translating Secrets into your Language =

If you would like to see *_Secrets for Android*_ available in your favourite language, why don't you help out?  Its quite easy.  Each language is structured as a simple text file, you can see some examples here:

English: http://code.google.com/p/secrets-for-android/source/browse/trunk/res/values/strings.xml<br>
French: http://code.google.com/p/secrets-for-android/source/browse/trunk/res/values-fr/strings.xml<br>
Italian: http://code.google.com/p/secrets-for-android/source/browse/trunk/res/values-it/strings.xml<br>
Chinese: http://code.google.com/p/secrets-for-android/source/browse/trunk/res/values-zh-rCN/strings.xml<br>
Chinese: http://code.google.com/p/secrets-for-android/source/browse/trunk/res/values-zh-rTW/strings.xml<br>

To translate into a new language, [http://secrets-for-android.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/res/values/strings.xml download] the English version and then modify it as needed.  Each string that requires translation looks like this:

{{{
  <string name="XXX">YYYY</string>
}}}

Only change the YYYY part, leave the rest as is, with one exception: Inside the YYYY part, you may see strings of the form `{0}`, or `{1,date,short}`.  Please do not translate these parts.

Once the translation is complete, either send me an email with the translated {{{strings.xml}}} file, or open a new [http://code.google.com/p/secrets-for-android/issues/entry issue] and attach the translation to it.

If you would like to receive credit for your translation, please let me know.  Send me a short string with your name and a link to your website, preferably in the translated language.  See the home page for example.